---
title: "Hey What's Up Hello | 4-20-25"
date: 2025-04-20
draft: false
---

Welcome to my all-purpose blog! I know a personal internet blog is sort of an outdated concept and it almost makes me feel like Jesse Eisenberg in The Social Network, but I'm excited to have a little corner of the internet to share my thoughts, feelings, and ideas with the world. 

With that being said, I'd like to give a little introduction to what I want my blog to be, and the content that I want to put out into the universe. 

I've always been a person with many intellectual interests. As a kid, I was never able to settle on one topic or fascination before full-throttle pivoting to a new one. My blog represents that spirit: I detail all of my **intellectual pursuits** on here, no matter how esoteric or random. That means code walkthroughs, math explanations, or whatever form I choose to express my interest in a subject.

Since childhood, my parents have also blessed me with the gift of being cultured. Me and my siblings were raised on all the classic movies and can recite most of Billy Madison better than a whole lot of millennials. Owing to this, I'm a huge movie buff and continue to dedicate an excessive amount of time and energy to **analyzing**, **critiquing**, and **commenting on movies** that I've watched recently. 

The same can be said for books. If you haven't noticed, I maintain a reading list on this site as well (check the navigation bar). When any piece of literature in particular merits a full **book review**, I explore it fully on here. 

Every two weeks or so, I post a **Luke's Picks** playlist with any songs that match the vibe I'm feeling. I fully describe what motivated me to choose each set of songs, and you can choose to filter by which blurbs you can relate to most.

Lastly, this blog is a space for me to share my **reflections** on life and society. I hope that none of these posts come off as preachy, but rather as introspective observations that each reader can relate to in their own way. 

I hope that whoever reads this finds some part of my digital footprint to enjoy and cherish. Regardless, the most important function of this blog is as a digital time capsule, an archive of my thoughts and opinions, which I will continue to maintain for as long as I can. You're welcome to stick around for the ride :)

