---
title: "Luke's Picks: Movie Soundtracks | 2025 May-17"
date: 2025-05-17
draft: false
---

The second installment of my music picks and commentary! I've found myself rewatching a ton of classic movies from my childhood lately, and I think that a really cool theme for this post would be underrated songs from classic Gen-Z childhood movies (this will be related to another post that should be coming out soon). I hope whoever is reading this enjoys these recommendations. I wouldn't be surprised if they brought back some memories. Also, this is not a clear ranking of songs, think of it more as an unordered collection. 

## 1. Red Balloon by Charli XCX from Home (2015) 
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cijTBpNFjH0?si=zxvR_YxkrkxTjp2N" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

It's hard to explain to normal functioning human beings how much I love Home. It's been pretty much universally described as one of Dreamworks' worst movies, with very little public interest in a sequel, but is somehow also one of my favorite movies. Something about the serendipitous friendship between the only outcast alien in a society of conformists and a lonely human girl trying to find her mom resonates deeply on an emotional level. Although I have no reason to relate to a Barbadian teen in New York, as a child, I found myself thinking "that's what I would do in that situation for sure. I'd try to find my mom." The music makes this movie golden for me, from Rihanna's ubiquitous presence on the soundtrack to this Charli XCX anthem. I highly recommend watching the first 10 minutes for the whole context of Red Balloon, but it fits the vibe perfectly and is just such a banger. I still listen to it sometimes when my flights takeoff and land, just because it signifies the start of something new and special.


## 2. Test Drive by John Powell from How to Train Your Dragon (2010)
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZDyEERuK31Y?si=14L1hnJ7wrrO9gWj" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

This song is just absolutely timeless, any Gen Z can probably relate to the absolute epic nostalgia you feel when listening to it. The chorus is so ingrained in my psyche from watching the HTTYD films as a kid that every time I hear it, I feel empowered and emboldened. If you've lived a life without these movies, I'm tempted to say you've missed out on the beauty of watching them as a child, but in truth, you're never too young to suspend disbelief and enjoy the films like everyone else.


## 3. Welcome to Jurassic Park by John Williams from Jurassic Park (1993)
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/FkVfNf8ADec?si=psKQkfmqMCKp7Uwp&amp;start=39" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Although Jurassic Park is about 15 years before my time, I was blessed with parents who understood the importance of passing on connections to great films, and Jurassic Park is 1000% one of them. Also, I go to a school with a tradition of a yearly football game with a nearby school. Every year, the graduating class makes a rally video, and there's always a beautiful segment of the video with clips from old rallies that starts with this theme. It's such a beautifully nostalgic song, and every time I listen to it is bittersweet and awesome at the same time.


## 4. Wakanda by Ludwig Goransson from Black Panther (2018)
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WK_yQD_s8f8?si=7Va3fKea8vR8Lpph" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

This scene really never gets old, no matter how long you've gone without watching Black Panther. Marvel, to me, has always done an amazing job of weaving signature themes together with characters or locations in their Multiverse. I think that the Wakanda theme is the perfect example of this: every time that I hear it, it makes me want to do the Wakandan salute or something. It's a rousing, uplifting, and powerful song that masterfully uses the influence of different ethnic music styles and instruments. There's also something to be said for the cultural significance of the first Marvel movie entirely centered around Black role models and empowerment, and the soundtrack definitely lived up to the hype for such a groundbreaking movie.


## 5. Tulou Tagaloa by Olivia Foa'i, Te Vaka from Moana (2016)
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sl1fSuPiIdA?si=fpKvfrwa_3JRTosh" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

There seems to be some correlation between major movies that promote inclusivity and amazing soundtracks. While Black Panther's soundtrack was much more hype and action-based, Moana's is just pure good vibes. I remember loving Moana as a kid because of the highly relatable moral of seeking adventure and exploration as opposed to following the status quo. The intro song has such hauntingly beautiful vocals, amplified by the backdrop of the classic Disney castle intro. This song pairs really well with late night walks as well, because it just feels so introspective and uplifting. 


## 6. When Can I See You Again by Owl City from Wreck It Ralph (2012)
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/r_WReTFaRUI?si=u0ofmNQGRhDlnqNt" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I almost don't believe that this movie came out in 2012, because I have a much clearer memory of the soundtrack and plot than expected for a movie I watched at 3 years old. That's just how big Wreck It Ralph was: it gave every kid a beautiful imaginary idea of how video game characters interacted and lived off screen, and the visuals were just stunning. The end credits song perfectly wraps up the movie and is just a certified banger. Honorable mention is Zero by Imagine Dragons, which was the end credits song for Wreck It Ralph 2, and is equally as amazing.


## 7. He's a Pirate by Hans Zimmer from Pirates of the Caribbean (2003)
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/BuYf0taXoNw?si=60P5TWRBdvPTFFOh" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Last but certainly not least is an absolute classic. Although the first Pirates movie came out in 2003, the sequels were still going strong late into my childhood. If you don't know at least the main part of this song, I consider you uncultured. 

It's always really fun to go back and listen to songs that remind me of my childhood. I hope that any Gen Z that comes across this post finds a little bit of nostalgia and happiness reliving some of these songs.