---
title: "Luke's Picks: Happy Times | 2025 Apr-21"
date: 2025-04-21
draft: false
---

Welcome to the first edition of my biweekly music recommendations. Trigger Warning: My music taste is very hit or miss, most people either totally agree or blacklist me for the rest of their days. 

## Vibe Check
Recently, I've been feeling excited and motivated, especially with school resuming after Spring Break. My music taste has reflected this hype vibe, centering around a lot of electronic and energetic music. I'd characterize this as a good phase in my life, rather than a bad one: I'd recommend listening to these songs if you're feeling ready to get back out into the world and make some new memories.

## 1. Memories (Explicit) by David Guetta ft. Kid Cudi
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/NUVCQXMUVnI?si=dKezQKwrFnNzWJdm" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

This song is so catchy that I actually had it in my head from instagram reels before I even knew what it was called! I love the intro and the beat, David Guetta does a really good job. The lyrics are a bit basic, though, so it's definitely not a song for lyrical purists. You're not gonna find much sophistication there, but the vibes are immaculate.


## 2. Trap Queen (Explicit) by Fetty Wap
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/i_kF4zLNKio?si=sSzim3hKX4Lr0EE1" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

This song is just absolutely timeless, any person in high school or college right now probably understands how much of a cultural staple it was in the 2010s. Although the lyrics are beautiful, I'm actually more of a fan of Fetty's musical chops in this one, as the first twenty seconds of the song are really my favorite part. That being said, the lyrics hit hard every time you hear it, and it's just an all around 10/10.


## 3. Live Your Life (Explicit) by T.I. ft. Rihanna
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/koVHN6eO4Xg?si=tndFo9GurNSepTBe" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I'm a **huge** superfan of the original song that T.I. sampled: Dragostea din Tei by O-Zone. It's one of the catchiest songs of all time in my book, and has such an amazing melody that it's been reproduced dozens of times through samples. Another notable sample is David Guetta and One Republic's "I Don't Wanna Wait", which takes the song in a really interesting direction. However, what I've been most obsessed with recently is Rihanna's vocals on the original melody, which is really what makes this song so powerful. From when Rihanna first comes in on the track until the very end, she doesn't miss on the mic.

## 4. Quevedo: Bzrp Music Sessions, Vol. 52 by Bizarrap and Quevedo
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/A_g3lMcWVy0?si=2RcPvhcy_mXY6hVp" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If you don't like Spanish music, I have no problem with you, but I will never understand you. On a broader note, Spanish music and reggaeton specifically experiment with beautiful beats and melodies, amplified by a deep cultural connection between music and dance. Most top Spanish songs could easily be played at a rager or school dance just because of the artists' experimentations with different beats and styles. Bizarrap has carried a lot of weight in the Spanish music industry over the last 5 years, collaborating with almost every reputable Spanish artist. Shakira's Music Sessions were also a smash hit. My personal favorite is Quevedo's, because of his deep vocals, a pensive but also festive mood, and of course, the "Queeeeedate" in the chorus. Definitely worth a permanent spot on your playlist.


## 5. broken by lovelytheband
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qr1-WpWOUk8?si=BzjjOfgnVL2cIujE" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Don't hate me for liking mainstream music. I know this song has had its day in the sun and is super well-known, but it still matches my vibe in pretty much every situation. When I listen to it during sad times, it makes me feel more carefree and gives me perspective. When I listen to it during happy times, I feel almost whimsical and hungry for new life experiences. It makes me feel energetic and adventurous, and I have proudly been blasting it for the last two weeks.


## 6. Vem Dancar Kuduro by Lucenzo ft. Big Ali
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/f9aMmSzIHnI?si=3yGTGf-pBVELaRbj" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

This might be a hot take. Pretty much everyone's heard of Danza Kuduro, the popular Latin dance megahit that is also a staple in my regular rotation. However, I recently discovered the original Portuguese version. Lucenzo's part in Danza Kuduro is, if I'm being honest, my favorite part, because it introduces a little more emotional depth to the song. Thus, discovering a whole song of Lucenzo's parts was a god-send. Big Ali also provides some comic relief in the song, and it's just as much a banger as its more popular counterpart.


## 7. 2s N 3s (Explicit) by LeoStayTrill and Clean Bandit
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_wUMV-RWcSw?si=QIpHtbFqO-NSKXoS" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Lastly, this is a song that I was lucky to come across on Instagram Reels (ugh). It's a remix/sample of Rather Be by Clean Bandit, who are one of my favorite musical groups because of their musical versatility and creativity. There's always a huge mix of instruments and electronic beats in their songs, which just makes their sound seem so full. The shock factor that you get from listening to the iconic intro to Rather Be, vibing with it, and then being greeted by LeoStayTrill spitting bars is immeasurable. It still gets me, and the beginning is honestly my favorite part of the song. The lyrics are great and stick in your head really easily: I can recite most of the song from memory, and LeoStayTrill's accent makes the whole song even more vibrant and interesting. I'd definitely recommend checking it out.

If you've made it this far, I hope you picked up a couple songs to try out. Enjoy! :)